---
description: "Option types and default values that will be used to scaffold a repository."
title: Bases
---

:::danger
The `create` engine is very early stage.
Don't rely on it yet.
:::

A _Base_ defines an object of option types and default values that will be used to scaffold a repository.
Bases are used to generate [Blocks](./blocks) and [Presets](./presets.md) that rely on user-specified values for those options.

## Options

Each Base is associated with a set of _Options_ represented by [Zod](https://zod.dev) values.
Each property of those Options represents a configurable value that can be provided by a user.
Those Options carry through to Blocks and Presets associated with the base.

For example, a minimal Base that stores only a `name` string could look like:

```ts
import { createBase } from "create";
import { z } from "zod";

export const base = createBase({
	options: {
		name: z.string(),
	},
});
```

Blocks and Presets made with that `base` will have access to the `name` Option of type `string`.

## Production

Bases can optionally define a `produce()` function that provides default fallback values for options.
Those fallback values will be used if the user doesn't provide their own values during creation.

For example, this Base defaults its `value` Option to `"default"` if not provided:

```ts
import { createBase, createBase } from "create";
import { z } from "zod";

export const base = createBase({
	options: {
		value: z.string().optional(),
	},
	produce() {
		return {
			value: "default",
		};
	},
});
```

Options generated by `produce()` are typically used to update a repository that was previously set up with the same [Preset](./preset).
Doing so can allow a Base's creations to be re-run in an existing repository without manually providing all of the same Options again.

## APIs

- [`createBase`](../apis/creators#createbase): for creating Bases
- [`produceBase`](../apis/producers#producebase): for producing Base Options
- [`testBase`](../apis/testers#testbase): for simulating Base production in tests
