---
title: Glossary
---

## Args

Individual arguments passed to a [Block](./concepts/blocks) or [Input](./concepts/inputs).
These are completely separate from [Options](#options).

## Block

> 👉 See: [Concepts > Blocks](./concepts/blocks).

A Block defines the logic to create a portion of a repository.

Each Block is associated with a parent [Schema](#schema), which defines the [Options](#options) the Block may access during production.

## Block Definition

A description of a [Block](#block).

[Schemas](#schema) create Blocks with a [`createBlock()`](./apis/creators#createblock) method, which takes in a Block Definition and returns a Block Factory.

## Block Context

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Contexts > Block Contexts](./runtime/contexts#block-contexts).

The shared helper functions and information provided to [Blocks](#block).

These include [Options](#options) as defined by the parent [Schema](#schema) as well as any [Args](#args) defined by the Block.

## Block Factory

A function that, when called, creates a new [Block](#block).

Block Factories are created by passing a [Block Definition](#block-definition) to the [`createBlock()`](./apis/creators#createblock) method of a [Schema](#schema).

## Context

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Contexts](./runtime/contexts).

Helper functions and information provided to [Blocks](#block), [Inputs](#input), and [Schemas](#schema).

## Creation

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Creations](./runtime/creations).

The produced outputs generated by [Blocks](#block) and [Presets](#preset).

Creations describe the contents of a repository, such as files on disk or initialization shell commands.

## Input

> 👉 See: [Concepts > Inputs](./concepts/inputs).

A standalone function that can be used to provide dynamic data by [Blocks](#block) and [Schemas](#schema).

## Input Context

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Contexts > Input Contexts](./runtime/contexts#input-contexts).

The shared helper functions and information provided to [Inputs](#input).

These include [Options](#options) as defined by the parent [Schema](#schema) as well as any [Args](#args) defined by the Input.

## Input Definition

An object describing how to create an [Input](#input).

## Options

The shared set of values defined by a [Schema](#schema) and used

These are completely separate from any individual [Args](#args).

## Phase

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Phases](./runtime/phases).

The order that [Blocks](#block) should be run in during production.

## Preset

> 👉 See: [Concepts > Presets](./concepts/presets).

A group of [Blocks](#block) associated with the same parent [Schema](#schema).

## Schema

> 👉 See: [Concepts > Schemas](./concepts/schemas).

A listing of option types and how to generate their default values.

Schemas are used to create child [Blocks](#block) and [Presets](#preset).

## Schema Context

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Contexts > Schema Contexts](./runtime/contexts#schema-contexts).

The shared helper functions and information provided to [Schemas](#schemas).

These include user-provided [Options](#options), if they exist.

## Schema Definition

A description of a [Schema](#schema).

Schemas are created by providing a Schema Definition to the [`createSchema`](./apis/creators#createschema) function provided by `create`.

## System

> 👉 See: [Runtime > Contexts > System Contexts](./runtime/contexts#system-contexts).

APIs to interact with the file system, network, and shell.
